Processing Bitcoin Blockchain Data using a Big Data-specific Framework

The analysis of Bitcoin blockchain data using heuristics, such as address clustering, is attractive for blockchain researchers and economics researchers because of the economical insights it can provide. Such analysis has become more challenging with increasing size of the Bitcoin blockchain because of its long processing times. In contrast to solutions mentioned in previous work, the approach presented in this thesis aims to reduce not only processing times but also (i) perform it on commodity hardware, and (ii) provide the possibility for users to implement new heuristics quickly. This approach includes the creation of a Transaction Graph in the graph database Neo4j from raw Bitcoin blocks, on which clustering heuristics written in the query language Cypher can be applied on a Spark cluster using Cypher for Apache Spark (CAPS). Employing Cypher for the implementation of the heuristics allows users to write their heuristics that exploit the graph nature of the blockchain data. Evaluations have shown, that it is practicable to parse the Bitcoin blockchain, create a Neo4j Transaction Graph, and import it into Neo4j. However, due to software errors encountered during the employment of CAPS, the implemented Multi- Input heuristic in Cypher could not yet be applied on a Spark Cluster. Moreover, the application of the heuristic on a local machine directly in Neo4j has been proven to be not feasible for the complete blockchain because of long processing time. It could also be shown that the Multi-Input heuristic produces a considerable amount of duplicates which need to be removed. Thus, this lead to the conclusion that, if removing duplicates in a distributed system, e.g., Apache Spark, cannot exploit the computing cluster, it might be worth considering a highly optimised local solution. Nevertheless, the approach presented in this thesis is promising to address the processing of this type of data, i.e., Bitcoin transactions, with the employment of heuristics in CAPS.
